[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Rule feature changes from May 2026 (#6687)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/kibana-alerting-experimental/rules/configure-a-rule.md

  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana

> description: "Configure rules in the {{alerting-v2-system}}: mode, ES|QL, grouping, schedule, lookback, activation and recovery, no-data handling, tags, and evaluation."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Configure rules in the experimental alerting system."
```

| Mode | Behavior |
| --- | --- |
| Signal | Signals only: the rule produces detections without alert lifecycle tracking or notifications. |

> | Alert | Lifecycle tracking and actions: alerts move through states (pending, active, recovering, and so on), and you can attach action policies so alert episodes dispatch through workflows. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Alert | Lifecycle tracking and actions. Alerts move through states (pending, active, recovering, and so on), and you can attach action policies so alert episodes dispatch through workflows. |
```
